Welcome to this lecture where we will
solve the leetcode problem number 332:
Reconstruct itinerary. Imagine
that we have a list of airline
tickets where each ticket contains the
departure and the arrival airports.
It turns out that all these tickets form one big
itinerary of a man who departs from "JFK" airport.
The goal is to reconstruct this itinerary. Note
that there is at least one valid itinerary, and if
there are multiple valid itineraries, return the
one that has the smallest lexicographical order,
for example if we have ["JFK", "ABC", "BAC"]
and ["JFK", "BAC", "ABC"], return the first one.
Here is an example, we have this list of tickets,
and when reconstructing itinerary, we get this
result. There are other possibilities, but
this one is the lexicographically smallest one.
How to solve this problem? A ticket can be
thought as a connection from an airport to
another one, and every time we have a list
of couples that may represent connections,
we can think of representing them with a graph.
In our case, a vertex represents an airport,
and an edge represents a flight, or ticket. Here
edges are directed because the ticket goes from
a destination u to another one v, the opposite
isn't true. With our example, we got this graph.
What to do with this graph now? We know that
our itinerary starts from "JFK". And it should
include all flights, but it shouldn't include
the same flight twice, tickets are unique.
At this point you should start
understanding how we will solve the problem.
Here flights are represented with edges, so an
itinerary will be represented by an ordering of
tickets such that for each two consecutive
tickets, the destination of the first one
is the departure airport of the second one. Or
simply the sequence of airports we pass from.
And flights are represented with edges, therefore,
we want an ordering of edges such that each two
consecutive edges are adjacent, we pass from
each edge exactly once, and we start from "JFK".
You've guessed it, this is nothing but the
Eulerian trail of the graph that starts from
the vertex "JFK", we will solve the problem
by finding the Eulerian trail of this graph,
by using the Hierholzer's algorithm
we learnt in the previous lecture.
One last thing, if there are multiple valid
itineraries, which is totally possible,
we should return the one with the
smallest lexicographical order,
how to do so? This issue has to do with
the order we traverse neighbors with.
To get the smallest lexicographical order, we
should not traverse neighbors in any order,
we should traverse them from the one with the
smallest lexicographical to the biggest one,
this is why we should sort neighbors of each
vertex before we start working. But, remember that
we're choosing the next neighbor from the end of
the list, not from the beginning, so we sort them
in lexicographical order but in decreasing
order, to get the smallest one at the end.
Let's implement this. Our function takes
as parameter the list of tickets only.
First we need to build the graph. We create an
empty graph, and for each ticket (start, end),
we add a directed edge from start to end. Then we
can check if the graph is at least semi-Eulerian,
to see if we can find an itinerary, but no
need to, it is mentioned in the description
that we have at least one. Now we sort
neighbors of each vertex u in reverse order,
we traverse vertices u, for each one of
them we sort graph[u] in reverse order.
We don't need to precise a key because Python
sorts strings in lexicographical order by default.
Last thing to do, we just call hierholzer
function and return the result, that's it.
By the way, for the start vertex,
we can modify hierholzer function
and directly put "JFK" as start vertex, so
that we don't waste time searching for it.
And we solved this problem by using our Eulerian
trail and Hierholzer's algorithm knowledge.
For the time complexity, let's put n as the number
of airports and m the number of tickets. We have
the cost of filling the graph, which is m because
we traverse tickets. And the cost of sorting
tickets, which is in O(mlogm) in the worst case,
and we have the cost of Hierholzer's algorithm,
which is in O(n+m). By doing the sum,
we get a time complexity of O(n+mlogm).
We've reached the end of this lecture,
I hope that you understood how we
could apply Eulerian trail to solve a
problem, see you in the next lecture.